# Interactive-Fiction
Narrative media

When we are playing interactive story games like Life is Strange and Detroit: Become Human, we are constantly faced with so many choices each of which would have an effect on the flow and the ending of the story. However, as a text-based story reader, we won’t have the chance to experience or participate in the narrative of the story, because at the very beginning, we have already known the ending of the story made by the author. If we are not satisfied with the ending, how might we change the story given the limitation that we don’t have permission to go back to some point of the story to make another choice for the protagonist? What if we just violently destroy or erase the undesirable text, and wait for the story to respond to us passively? This is the main idea for my narrative project. We don’t know exactly if our intentional destruction would lead to an even worse ending, but we have no choice and are willing to roll the dice.

In my project, I planned to allow the reader to change and experiment with the narrative by letting them drag the last line of the story, the ending, and use that to crash into the undesirable text that they want to erase. The reader might feel different levels of resistance when she is trying to erase the text, and the resistance is according to how serious the butterfly effect would be resulting from that erasion action.

Regarding the implementation, I extracted a short poem from the video game What Remains of Edith Finch, which is about how a boy was killed by a tent blown away by a thunderstorm at his father’s wedding. I found there are at least five lines of text that, once erased and modified, could lead the story to a totally different ending. I divided the five sentences into three categories, depending on how hard making a modification on it would be. I, therefore, designed three different kinds of interaction functioning as the different levels of resistance the reader might feel when trying to erase the text. I also wrote the updated versions of the story to demonstrate how the text would react to the reader’s destruction.

Some of the examples of the interaction would be like: The reader is only allowed to erase the sentence with a word highlighted in blue and will be prevented from erasing other text.  if the reader is trying to erase the word “crudely” in the sentence “The nature might destroy the tent our dad had crudely made”, the text would change immediately without feeling any resistance, because making a crudely made tent more rigid is relatively easy and would not cause much butterfly effect.  However, if the reader wants to erase the word “bad” in the first sentence, he needs to attach more force and wait while the text is starting to tremble and eventually disappear. The highest level of resistance would appear when the reader is trying to erase the word “picked up” to calm down the wind. The reader has to crash into the sentence three times until it cracks completely and explodes. One thing that is also worth noticing is that as the reader erases the text, the story is constantly changing in response to the erasion, some of the previously highlighted text disappear due to the change of the story. But if I have more time, I also wanted to let more new highlighted texts appear as the story is changing.
